Statistical Analysis Plan
================
Hyejung Lee <hyejung.lee@utah.edu>
Wed Mar 12, 2025 10:50:51 AM

- [Hypothesis](#hypothesis)

  

# Hypothesis

Advanced non-small cell lung cancer patients’ recommended course of
treatments are identified in National Comprehensive Cancer Network
(NCCN) guideline. The guideline suggests each patient to perform biopsy
to identify presence of targetable mutations of certain biomarkers and
PDL1 expression to make a informed decision on 1L therapy choice.

However, the standard guideline may not always be followed due to
reasons such as clinician’s expert knowledge and ethics. For example,
patients with heavy smoking habits mostly develop NSCLC by smoking
without any targetable mutation. In this case, chemotherapy alone can be
used or if PDL1 expression level is available, any combination of
chemotherapy and immunotherapy may be applied. The choice to proceeding
to 1L without checking for targetable mutation or PDL1 expression arises
due to the fact that a complete panel of tests for biomarkers and PDL1
expression takes 2 to 3 weeks on average. It may take longer if the
biopsy samples were not good and the test results are indeterminiate,
requiring another round of biopsy and waiting for the result. This
period of waiting without doing any treatment may be detrimental to
patient’s health and thus becomes an ethicial issue. Therefore, the
ultimate choice of whether waiting for the test result or not relies
heavily on
